# SSE 554 - Final Project (Imported from Object-Oriented II Project)

Problem Statement

Building personal computers (PC) can be seen as an expensive hobby for tech-enthusiasts. However, the last decade has proven this DIY hobby to be a lucrative market, as multiple tech companies such as NVIDIA, AMD, and Intel, have become multi-billion dollar enterprises in their respective fields. However, the prospect of building a PC can often be discouraging for people with little to no experience or knowledge in this field to partake in it. Purchasing pre-built computers provide a simpler and more secure alternative solution. However, one common caveat to this approach is that they often perform worse than assembling a similarly-priced PC.  
 
Although building PCs can offer more customization and permits the ability to tune your system to accommodate it towards a desired set of workloads with an expected output quality, the variations in available system components can prove to be challenging for first-timers to know where to start and what to select. There are infinite combinations of the parts that could either give you the system of your dreams or an expensive paper weight. Some of the most common concerns when it comes to pc building are worries that something will break in the build process, getting the initial software setup correct so that the computer boots, and do I have the correct parts to satisfy my needs at the appropriate level. Two of the most important parts when it comes to determining the usability of a PC are the CPU and the GPU.  
 
The CPU is the brains of the PC. Every command goes through it, and it manages the power of the system. The GPU helps handle graphics-related work like graphics, effects, and videos. The GPU takes some of the processing burden off the CPU freeing it to do other tasks. The CPU and GPU both have certain tasks that they are better with. The CPU is generally better at sequential processing and the GPU is better at parallel processing. To have a well running PC, balance between these two components is a must. With two main CPU vendors offering a plethora of choice and 3 GPU vendors with a large offering, it would take a lot of time and effort to find the right combination with limited knowledge.   

Solution  

The objective of this part recommendation system is to design a graphical user interface (GUI) program using C#, where the user is given a set of inputs to determine their preferred use-cases for their PC. Once their preferences are submitted, the program will compare their inputs with retail computer parts in an established database to produce a set of recommended components to consider to purchase for their system. To limit the scope of this solution, the recommendation system will focus on what’s typically the most expensive parts in a PC, the Central Processing Unit (CPU) and the Graphics Processing Unit (GPU). 
 
Our PC Parts Picker Program will help to alleviate some of the stress and uncertainty when selecting a CPU and GPU pair. These two parts have the greatest effect on the overall performance of a PC. Other parts such as the motherboard, RAM, power supply, etc., while important, have a less significant impact on the quality of the user experience. For this reason, our team has decided to focus on generating combinations determined by user input.   
The program will use techniques utilized in other recommendation engines such as content-based filtering to offer the suggestions.  The program has an easy-to-use interface and asks simple questions to form a picture of how the user intends to use their PC. The information that will be requested of the user is their budget, desired resolution, desired minimum FPS, and their preferred brand of GPU. C# will be the language used for coding the program in conjunction with the Visual Studio IDE for ease of form creation.  
Requirements and Use Cases  

The system must accept user input for the budget, desired resolution, desired FPS, and preferred brand and then store this information for use later.  The program must query its internal database to create CPU and GPU pairs based on user specifications. The program shall return up to the top 5 results of the pairing with the following details: the brand, the model, the price, performance at 1080p resolution, and links to where the products may be purchased. Visual representations of the GPU and CPU brands shall also be retrieved and displayed. The program shall allow users to close the results window to modify their original input and receive new recommendations. The program shall be created in C# in accordance with the team’s program of study.  
